walking to the gym with my best girl
Melissa I thought I'd say a few words
about a conversation I had last night I
hate having my collar done up like this
I think it looks ridiculous on camera
but if I unzip it I'm afraid the caller
is gonna gonna click with the mic in
anyway I don't want to look like a
priest in a cassock you know anyway last
night I was talking to Tcat so you heard
that conversation star and then you
drifted off to sleep and a large part of
what we talked about was the nature of
human intelligence and the IQ test and
that gets a little bit meaning of life
II as you know I think it's really
important in those conversations to be
honest with yourself and others about
why you're raising the question the
first place so you probably don't hear
this as much as I do Melissa just
because you're female but there's a lot
of male angst about IQ tests and
objective measures of intelligence on
the internet and a lot of it it's kind
of like roughly parallel to left wingers
who blame capitalism for all their
failings in life like left wingers who
feel they should have had a better life
they had tremendous potential they
should have accomplished more but you
know the system was against them that
that capitalism as a system is it's
keeping them down now and of course you
have to sympathize to some extent you
know I'm not assuming there are crazy
conspiracy theorists in all cases there
may be some truth to that they may not
have been able to afford university
tuition and they may blame the
capitalism but there's a lot of kind of
generalized anxiety about IQ tests and
verifiable objectively real intelligence
in the internet and people presenting
theories one way or another about it
whether the focus is on heredity on
genetics and IQ or if it's about other
ways of kind of taking the concept of
palpable maturity real verifiable
intelligence and basically kind of
weaponizing it into a political science
social science concept using our debates
well debates even about democracy who
should make decisions in society I guess
today
a lot of people must feel it's a grave
injustice that someone as stupid as
total Trump so much power in a sense and
we've really seen how stupid Donald
Trump is in the last year or so let's
see it boys let's walk through the park
and sit in the back no but that I didn't
even think of that example it's so
obvious but you know it's it's really
true and I mean like again so again how
even gonna measure intelligence in males
in Toms case but I'm meshing the most of
the day it's it's indicative that Joseph
Stalin considered Mao Zedong stupid and
crazy if someone else is a completely
insane dictator considers you kind of
stupid and crazy and you know mouse'
dong one of the way she came up in
politics was through his poetry and
you've got to talk to Chinese people who
really know poetry but you know when you
do with her like poetry is really bad
it's like no no no no there were warning
signs here some of his poetry is
megalomaniacal I've read that I've
looked at his poetry but also apparently
just his I think we should probably that
French will be okay
I think he's not too soon he knows uh
but apparently also to some extent when
people are doing classical whatever a
Chinese poetry which it is it's
classical in form you can tell he's just
he's just not too bright so but you got
to talk to people who really know
Chinese poetry to get that gift that air
to them so anyway we a lot of us
struggle with culturally or politically
some sense of questioning about about
what is intelligence how is it measured
and once you have a measurement like IQ
in what ways does it matter
so you know spontaneously and talking
about this with kicad last night one of
the first things I said to him and
challenging his assumptions about the IQ
test was to ask him do you think there's
any relationship between IQ and whether
or not someone can paint a great
painting
now it was a new thought for him and
Tcat is definitely someone who's smart
enough to understand right away that I
don't mean this as a hollow type I don't
mean this has one unique example you
know the relationship between
intelligence and painting likewise
there's a question what do you think is
a different there's a relationship
between this IQ test and any other form
of technically convoluted skill whether
that's driving or eye any performing
surgery as a medical doctor or anything
else what you know why why do you think
or do you think you know IQ would relate
to these things in any in any sense at
all and of course really after a
moment's reflection the answer is no so
my position on the IQ test is that the
IQ test tells you one thing and one
thing only showed up to the seagulls
Segal guests guest starring in my video
I'm gonna give him half the Adsense
revenue I make about 15 cents out of
these videos just say no anyway I think
that IQ the IQ test represents one thing
and one thing only and that is that it
tells you how well a human being can
write the IQ test now in the same way
that I don't think this isn't
unreasonable degree of skepticism if you
look at something like a driver's test I
think a driving test shows you how well
you can write the driving test or
perform the driving test so there's a
written component on my hand an actual
director driving component but I think
all of us know even if I've never driven
a car in my life I am aware that there's
a gap between the real world of driving
actual emergency driving conditions and
what you encounter what you're tested on
in a driving test in Taiwan I mentioned
it's especially surreal several people
were marketing this to me that the form
of driving tests they have there it's
exactly the same every time they say it
this corresponds to Taiwanese culture
it's completely fair it's completely
predictable completely consistent and
it's completely detached from reality
that offeri yeah that's this little
miniature obstacle course and you can be
a terrible driver and just memorize
exactly the sequence of steps you have
to do to get through this obstacle
course and that's it you know
Yeah right right so not not in Taiwan no
it's it's it's an indoor closed track
kind of thing yes right of course sure
sure - so much of course I'm not saying
there's zero I'm also saying there's
zero relationship but you do the driving
test and how you and how you how you
would do in real-world conditions
actually this does come back to what I'm
saying about about IQ versus
intelligence in a more meaningful sense
because that's especially going to
correspond at the low end of the scale
so I mean if you're actually blind if
you're actually visually impaired if
you're actually have some kind of
disorder that scatter is your ability to
focus and pay attention and that shows
up that really impairs you doing the
driving test
someone at the extremal on someone who's
barely able to drive at all sure there's
gonna be a strong correlation there
between how you do on the test but most
were interesting and what most of all
are interested in especially in
social-political at the high end of
deaths nobody thinks Donald Trump is
incapable of operating heavy machinery
nobody is testing him in the sim I mean
you know this more than most a lot of
the tests are calibrated whether it's by
psychiatrist or for the legal system try
to test someone can they be legally
responsible for their own financial
affairs for example an elderly person is
experiencing dementia but even if it's a
young person you know what mental age is
this person capable of consent in
getting married contrary to their
parents wishes well if they're judged to
have a mental age of six years old
they're extremely severely [ __ ] you
know they may have a guardian who's able
to make these decisions those things get
get to school so there there's one realm
of intelligence tests that are really
aimed at the low in the spectrum but
almost that's almost never what we're
debating or discussing in these cases
what we're discussing instead is and
this is this is we get into multiple
divisions between what's perceived as
intelligent versus what's actually
intelligent and what's perceived as for
example good painting as opposed to
what's actually in a sense good painting
for a painting to be a hit painting like
a song to be a hit song doesn't mean
it's an objective
we just we just lived through thank you
thank you we just lived through Kanye
West having a smash hit song that you
know I think is objectively terrible the
point is also at any given point a
painting or a song or anything else can
catch the cash the interest of the
public or catch us catch the spirit of
the moment and and be a hit and that
doesn't does first of all doesn't
reflect anything about the objective
intrinsic quality of the of the song of
the painting and it also doesn't tell
you anything about the objective
intelligence of the person who created
it I think all of us here are willing to
admit right away
you could be quite stupid in many
important ways and still be a brilliant
painter still produce aesthetically
really pleasing or important paintings
now likewise we talk about intelligence
and heredity of intelligence most of
what's perceived as intelligence and
obviously I'm emphasizing that the some
extent we don't know oh we ought to
question whether or not this really is
intelligence a lot of it is incredibly
culturally conditioned so what kind of
intelligence did I inherit from my
father I want to give a quick disclaimer
here I think my my father was not just
very stupid but really quite insane but
nevertheless I was raised by my father
for example to really value the work of
William Shakespeare to think of seeing
Shakespeare performed as an important
part of life as a young man as even as a
child and that reading Shakespeare was
something really worthwhile and valuable
and I did so this is not DNA but this is
a kind of cultural heredity and I grew
up in a culture at Toronto where from an
early age I was perceived as intelligent
for knowing a lot about Shakespeare I
mean just compared to the average person
you know that I knew these plays I got
these literary and cultural references
and and what have you now is that
intelligence no I mean I think however
you want to define real intelligence
these kinds of things right away
absolutely challenge that perceived
intelligence is going to have any
meaningful connection to it to real
intelligence and then conversely
when you talk about any given test or
written format test like the IQ test or
the
SAT test if you study for and perform
well on an organic chemistry test the
university a written multiple-choice
test an organic chemistry there's no
doubt this is testing a certain kind of
skill dedication motivation
self-discipline memorization etc etc but
just as uncomfortable in pretending that
my father raising me to value
Shakespeare correlates to real
intelligence in any meaningful sense I'm
I'm even more skeptical that becoming
proficient in organic chemistry or
proficient in the skills and knowledge
you need to do really well on an SAT
test is going to is going to in any way
correspond to intelligence and in a
meaningful sense so my walk of life this
is one of the things I said to decad
because he's had a very different
experience like me I said you know I've
known so many people yet we go to the
gym I've known so many people who had
PhDs who were very proficient in writing
tests and who were in a very meaningful
sense stupid I'm have to digress into
examples and stories but I've known some
really really stupid people who didn't
just have high levels of formal
education but who would obviously Excel
the end the type of narrowly focused
discipline you need to do well on
college entrance exams standardized
tests and exams of different kinds of
crucial crucial junctions of their lives
so maybe I am more skeptical than most
or more hesitant than most to get on
this bandwagon of pretending that what
the IQ test proves or demonstrates is
real intelligence and there's a little
bit of a parallel here to the fact I
always have to disclaim when I'm
criticizing modes of activism and
protest where I say look I'm not
claiming this form of activism has zero
efficacy handing out pamphlets I'm not
gonna claim there's zero effect of
standing around on the street corner
handing out pamphlets
but I'm saying look let's talk about
just how little the the effectiveness is
there's something similar here where I
have to disclaim I'm not claiming the IQ
test is of zero efficacy I've already
said I think it's very important to look
at that when it's calibrated for degrees
of retardation degrees and mental
disability that's really important as
well we're talking about
I have experience with that with my one
job that I had where I was working for a
psychiatrist or a psychologist sorry and
he he did mental examinations on people
who were they were trying to decide if
they were responsible criminal
responsibility evaluations if they were
ugly and of the level of intelligence
that they were to be held responsible
for it that way yeah these tests are
important right
like if somebody has well right it means
something I think most of us know if
we've written a lot of standardized
tests you could have written the same
standardized test two months apart and
gotten a very different score and that's
gonna reflect how much studying you
didn't progress you did and just the
little things going on your life if any
of us remember writing a big important
test oh if I hadn't broken up with my
girlfriend that month or if I hadn't
gone out drinking a few incidental
things in the same way one of the
criticisms of the IQ test specifically
is that when you look at the same person
writing the tests repeatedly over time
you get widely different significantly
different results for the same person's
alleged intelligence so get my point
being this isn't really showing you
intelligence it's just showing you how
well this person can write this type of
test or this this particular test so um
one of the ray of hope here this came up
a million years ago when we did the
video together talking about
academically adrift so that was a video
criticizing what's going on in the
university system now one of the
theories of Education that's gaining
steam right now in the 21st century is
called task based learning and I would
point out that the flip side of that is
tat task-based testing where people are
being tested by giving them a more
analytical and creative task so in that
earlier video discussion which over the
fact that they decided to test the
aptitude or acumen of these university
students by giving them a series of
short articles for example a series of
contradictory short newspaper articles
about a flaw in manufacturing airplanes
so
short article suggesting that there was
something wrong with the engine an
aircraft that wasn't clear more reliable
was and they'd read some different short
articles and different perspectives and
then be given some very broad essay
questions not writing academic essays
but to synthesize and analyze the
information and give recommendations
about what should be done and I've
pointed to most of that I pointed out
more recently also that this is gonna
give you a very different measure of
intelligence and of what intelligence is
supposed to be and that is the kind of
intelligence we care about with Donald
Trump what we care about with Donald
Trump or george w bush or mao zedong can
you sit down and read a series of short
articles with mutually conflicting
usually contradictory biased or
opinionated information and engage in
some kind of analysis and engage in
creative thinking and come to sober and
insightful conclusions and write them up
clearly in your own first language in
this case English that that is now but
again I'm biased that is one test for
one type of intelligence and that
happens to be the type of intelligence I
care about I I don't care so much about
whether or not you can paint a beautiful
painting but if we had a painting based
test that we had a purely creative
purely artistic test that would
doubtless measure intelligence and spawn
a different set of measurements in
another way so look guys um as you guys
know I grew up a theist but in some
sense Jewish ethnically Jewish Judaism
is a whole subculture massively fueled
by the idea of being born special being
born among the the chosen people and for
me the most dangerous and seductive
element of this discourse of what IQ and
intelligence is the idea that you're
born special is that intelligence is
something fixed from birth and I think
that any really sincere thoroughgoing
engaged with these issues is instead
going to reveal what we call
intelligence it's not just that it's
culturally conditioned the example of my
father encouraging me to read
Shakespeare it's not just a matter of
perception versus reality the reality
itself is long after question any less
words
like to revisit this we're not running
out of tape it's great to give our
YouTube this equals never end okay let's
hit the gym and get stupid